EE1001_	Emerging Technologies in Electrical Engineering_	"This module introduces students to contemporary issues, emerging technologies and new frontiers in electrical engineering. It serves to demonstrate to students how the EE curriculum is designed to address these aspects via a top-down approach. The module consists of 5 distinct parts of approximately 6  hour lectures and integrated with some self-learning activities. Each part focuses on each of the following areas / topics: Communications and Networking, Control and Energy Systems, Micro / nanoelectronics, Multimedia Signal Processing, Grand challenges for engineering (the role of EE). The lectures will be conducted by a group of faculty members who are experts in the respective areas. Although the lectures are meant to focus on contemporary issues and emerging technologies, an appropriate level of historical perspective will be used to demonstrate how each subfield has evolved from the traditional areas of EE so that students can see both the connections between different areas and the driving force behind the rapid development and expansion of EE in the last few decades. Prior to this series of lectures focusing on specific areas, a detailed introduction of the EE curriculum will also be  given in the first lecture. The philosophy underpinning the curriculum and its strength and constraints will be highlighted. The module will conclude with student presentations on a topic in an area of their  interest. Students are assessed through assignments, reports and presentations._"	4_	"A-level Math, and A-level Physics_"

EE1001X_	Emerging Technologies in Electrical Engineering_	"This module introduces students to contemporary issues, emerging technologies and new frontiers in electrical engineering. It serves to demonstrate to students how the EE curriculum is designed to address these aspects via a top-down approach. The module consists of 5 distinct parts of approximately 4  hour lectures and integrated with some self-learning activities. Each part focuses on each of the following areas / topics:Communications and Networking,Power and Energy Systems, Micro / nanoelectronics, Control & Robotics, Grand challenges for engineering (the role of EE). The lectures will be conducted by a group of faculty members who are experts in the respective areas. Although the lectures are meant to focus on contemporary issues and emerging technologies, an appropriate level of historical perspective will be used to demonstrate how each subfield has evolved from the traditional areas of EE so that students can see both the connections between different areas and the driving force behind the rapid development and expansion of EE in the last few decades. Prior to this series of lectures focusing on specific areas, a detailed introduction of the EE curriculum will also be  given in the first lecture. The philosophy underpinning the curriculum and its strength and constraints will be highlighted. The module will conclude with student presentations on a topic in an area of their  interest. Students are assessed through assignments, reports and presentations._"	4_	"A-level Math, and A-level Physics_"
EE1002_	Introduction to Circuits and Systems_	"This is a first course which introduces students to some electrical and magnetic components which  are the building blocks for  electrical engineering.  Such components include resistors, capacitors, inductors, diodes, transistors, op amps and transformers. Students will work in groups in the lab to design simple circuits and systems using these components.   In the process, students learn about physical quantities of voltage and currents, circuit principles, power and energy, and operations of the diode, transistors, op amps and transformers. Some of the circuits will be integrated into a bigger system (e.g. an autonomous vehicle), culminating in a competition for all students. In this module, students also learn soft-skills such as the importance of resourcefulness, teamwork, time-management, project presentation, integrity and effective communications._"	4_	A-level Physics_
EE1003_	Introduction to Signals and Communications_	"This module introduces students to the important area of signal processing and communications which are two major areas in electrical engineering.  daily lives. It uses an open-ended project approach, and students are guided through the various parts of the project to build the different component modules which can finally be integrated into a complete communication system. It exposes students to the concepts of signals, spectra, sampling, digitization, coding, transmission and reception over physical channels, receiver noise, symbol detection and message reconstruction. Both the systems and the physics aspects of communication are covered. Students will be assessed through assignments, laboratory reports and a final project report with oral presentation._"	4_	"A-level Math, and A-level Physics_"
EE1111_	Engineering Principles and Practice I_	"This module introduces electrical engineering students to what engineers do and the engineer's thought process.This is the first of a two-part module: EngineeringPrinciples and Practice (EPP) I and II. Real engineering systems will be used to show how engineers use differentdisciplines of engineering, and combine them to make things work. Through grasping engineering fundamentals, students learn how engineering systems work and fail (EPP I). Through learning where systems get energy and how they are controlled, students learn how multidisciplinary concepts are tied together (EPP II). The students will learn basic design, experimentation and evaluation of engineering systems._"	6_	_
EE1111A_	Electrical Engineering Principles and Practice I_	"This module introduces first year electrical engineering students to what engineers do and to the engineer's thought process. This is the first of a two-part module: Engineering Principles and Practice (EPP) I and II. Real engineering systems will be used to show how engineers use different disciplines of engineering to make things work. Through grasping engineering fundamentals, students learn how engineering systems work and fail (EPP I). Through learning where systems get energy and how they are controlled, students learn how multi-disciplinary concepts are tied together (EPP II). Students will also learn basic design, experimentation and evaluation of engineering systems._"	4_	_
EE1112_	Engineering Principles and Practice II_	"This module is the second part of the two part module Engineering Principles and Practice (EPP) I and II and follows closely the same learning objectives. Most modern engineering systems are more electric. They convert some raw form of energy, such as fuel, mechanical or energy stored in battery, into electrical form. We see this in every engineering system from trains, biomedical devices, chemical plants, electric cars, aircrafts and ships to ICT devices such as computers, handphones, tablets etc. Hence, energy conversion, distribution, and sensing & control will form the backbone of this knowledge segment._"	6_	_
EE2011_	Engineering Electromagnetics_	"Electromagnetic (EM) and transmission line theory is essential in all disciplines of electrical and computer engineering.  EM theory is the fundamental basis for understanding transmission lines and electrical energy transmission. To understand and solve EM and transmission line problems encountered in electrical and computer engineering, rigorous analytical methods are required. At the end of this module, in addition to being able to solve EM and transmission line problems, the student will be able to design transmission line circuits, design electrical elements with lumped behaviour, and mitigate EM interference.  To enhance understanding, case studies and computer visualisation tools will be used.   Topics covered: Static electric and magnetic fields. Maxwell's equations. Electromagnetic waves: plane-wave propagation, behaviour at interface between media, shielding, electromagnetic compatability. Transmission lines. Impedance matching. Radiation.  Case studies._"	4_	MA1505 and MA1506_
EE2011E_	Engineering Electromagnetics_	"Electromagnetic (EM) and transmission line theory is essential in all disciplines of electrical and computer engineering.  EM theory is the fundamental basis for understanding transmission lines and electrical energy transmission. To understand and solve EM and transmission line problems encountered in electrical and computer engineering, rigorous analytical methods are required. At the end of this module, in addition to being able to solve EM and transmission line problems, the student will be able to design transmission line circuits, design electrical elements with lumped behaviour, and mitigate EM interference.  To enhance understanding, case studies and computer visualisation tools will be used.   Topics covered: Static electric and magnetic fields. Maxwell's equations. Electromagnetic waves: plane-wave propagation, behaviour at interface between media, shielding, electromagnetic compatability. Transmission lines. Impedance matching. Radiation.  Case studies._"	4_	TE2002_
EE2012_	Analytical Methods in Electrical and Computer Engineering_	"This module covers the mathematical fundamentals of probability and statistics which are necessary in the study of integrated circuits,  communications, communication networks, control systems, signal processing, energy and new media. There is a strong emphasis on the application of these concepts to electrical and computer engineering problems, such as the Gaussian distribution in communications, random variable distributions for system reliability, Bayes theorem in parameter estimation, and hypothesis testing for signal detection._"	4_	(MA1505 and MA1506) or (MA1511 and MA1512)_
EE2020_	Digital Fundamentals_	"This is a first course that introduces fundamental digital logic, digital circuits, and programmable devices. The course also provides an overview of computer systems. This course provides students with an understanding of the building blocks of modern digital systems and methods of designing, simulating and realizing such systems. The emphasis of this module is on understanding the fundamentals of digital design across different levels of abstraction using hardware description languages._"	5_	EE1002 or CG1108 or EG1108_
EE2021_	Devices and Circuits_	"This module builds on  the students’ knowledge on electronic devices and their use in the design of circuits. The physical principles behind the operation of these devices, their operation and usage in electronic circuits to achieve important functions will be the back bone of this module.   The topics covered include basic semiconductor physics, drift and diffusion of carriers, pn diode, diode circuits, Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT), and Metal Oxide Semiconductor (MOSFET), design of single stage amplifiers using BJTs and MOSFETs,  CMOS inverter, multistage amplifiers, current source and sink.  Students will be assessed through assignments, test and a final examination._"	4_	EE1002/EG1108 /CG1108_
EE2023_	Signals and Systems_	"This is a fundamental course in signals and systems. Signals in electrical engineering play an important role in carrying information. Signals going through a system is an inevitable process. It allows engineers to understand the system. Thus in this course the relationship between signals and systems will be taught. The concepts which are important include time and frequency  domain representations, Fourier and Laplace transforms, spectrum of a signal, frequency response of systems (Bode diagrams), sampling theorem, linear time invariant systems, convolution, transfer functions, stability of feedback systems, modulation and filters._"	4_	MA1506 or MA1512_
EE2023E_	Signals and Systems_	"This is a fundamental course in signals and systems. Signals in electrical engineering play an important role in carrying information. Signals going through a system is an inevitable process. It allows engineers to understand the system. Thus in this course the relationship between signals and systems will be taught. The concepts which are important include time and frequency  domain representations, Fourier and Laplace transforms, spectrum of a signal, frequency response of systems (Bode diagrams), sampling theorem, linear time invariant systems, convolution, transfer functions, stability of feedback systems, modulation and filters._"	4_	TG1401_
EE2024_	Programming for Computer Interfaces_	This course provides students with the experience of programming devices and computer interfaces. The course builds upon the C language programming skills the students have learnt in the previous semester and teaches them how to utilize programming to build simple digital systems. The course culminates in an open-ended project in which students will have the opportunity to design and build a digital system of their choice._	5_	EE2020 and CS1010E_
EE2025_	Power Electronics_	"Power electronics is an enabling technology used widely in electric power processing unit. It is an integral part of all electronic equipment from household appliances through information technology to transportation systems. This module provides basic working principles and their design for generic power electronic converter circuits. After going through this module students should be able to analyze, evaluate and carry out basic design of power electronic circuits for a large variety of applications. The topics covered are: Power semiconductor devices and terminal characteristics. Switching circuits design and protection circuits. AC-DC converters, DC-DC converters and DC-AC converters: basic analysis and performance evaluation._"	4_	EE1002 Introduction to Circuits and Systems (or EG1108 Electrical Engineering or CG1108 Electrical Engineering)_
EE2026_	Digital Design_	"This is a first course that introduces fundamental digital logic, digital circuits, and programmable devices. This course provides students with an understanding of the building blocks of modern digital systems and methods of designing, simulating and realizing such systems. The emphasis of this module is on understanding the fundamentals of digital design across different levels of abstraction using hardware description languages, and developing a solid design perspective towards complex digital systems._"	4_	EG1111_EE2027_	Electronic Circuits_	"Building on the basic circuit concepts introduced through EG1112, this module introduces the operating principles of transistors and how they are used in amplifier circuits. It discusses the foundational concepts of transistor amplifiers and analyses their performance. It also introduces 
operational amplifiers as a circuit component and describes how functional analog circuits, which can be applied to solving complex engineering problems, can be designed and analysed using operational amplifiers.  LTSpice will be introduced as a circuit analysis tool.  To augment learning, two laboratory sessions will be included focusing on the topics of single transistor amplifiers and Op-Amp circuits, respectively._"	4_	EG1112_EE2028_	Microcontroller Programming and Interfacing_	"This module teaches students how to program microcontrollers and achieve computer interfacing using C programming and industry standard protocols. The course extends the C programming students have learnt earlier, covers microprocessor instruction sets and how to program microcontrollers to interface with other devices in order to build an embedded system. The course culminates in an assignment in which students design and build an embedded system that meets requirements and specifications._"	4_	"IT1007, EE2026_"
EE2031_	Circuit and Systems Design Lab_	"This module emphasizes on the practical aspects related to modules EE2021 Device and Circuits and EE2022 Electrical Energy Systems. It also provides students with an integrated perspective about the two modules. Students will first learn about the device characterizations, such as diode, LED, solar cell, transistor, operational amplifiers, etc. They will then proceed to build interesting circuits blocks involving the devices learnt earlier. With these accumulated knowledge on device and circuit blocks, students will move on to system projects that require the integration of knowledge across different fields, such as devices, circuits and portable electrical energy systems._"	3_	EE2021 Devices and Circuits_
EE2032_	Signals & Communications Design Lab_	"This lab module introduces students to the practical aspects of designing a communication system. This module builds on the concepts learnt in EE2011 Engineering Electromagnetism and EE2023 Signals and Systems. Students will start the experiments with the Frequency Modulation (FM) technique in conjunction with a voltage controlled oscillator (VCO). This is followed by experiments with FM demodulation techniques, simplex communication and duplex communication. Then students will learn about the reflection coefficient and plot it in the Smith Chart. Subsequently an antenna is designed and the building blocks of the communication system are characterized. Finally the complete communication system is assembled and measured._"	3_	EE2011 Engineering Electromagnetism and EE2023 Signals and Systems._
EE2033_	Integrated System Lab_	"This module serves as the hands-on counterpart for EE2027 and EE2023.  Students will practice and strengthen the knowledge learnt in electromagnetics, devices and circuits, and signals and systems through a series of experiments with the aim of integrating these knowledge to build an integrated digital communication system.  The experiment will touch on important concepts, such as opamp characterization, circuit design specifications and component choice, frequency domain signal analysis, OOK modulation, frequency spectrum, and wireless communication system. Towards the end, the students will form an integrated view on these topics through a mini-project that encompass all these fields._"	4_	"EE2023, EE2027_"
EE2111A_	Electrical Engineering Principles and Practice II_	"This module is the second part of the two part module Engineering Principles and Practice (EPP) I and II and follows closely the same learning objectives. Most modern engineering systems are more electric. They convert some raw form of energy, such as fuel, mechanical or energy stored in battery, into electrical form. We see this in every engineering system from trains, biomedical devices, chemical plants, electric cars, aircrafts and ships to ICT devices such as computers, handphones, tablets etc. Hence, energy conversion, distribution, and sensing & control will form the backbone of this knowledge segment._"	4_	_
EE3013C_	Labview for Electrical Engineers_	"This module will give students some general computing as well as more specific software skills for solving engineering problems. LabVIEW is widely adopted software in the industry for data acquisition and instrument control. The teaching of LabVIEW will be based on engineering fundamentals that students have learnt in the first two years. This will also help them to consolidate concepts that have been learnt in the various technical modules. Through a series of integrated miniprojects carried out in the lab, students will be guided in their exploration of engineering principles and problem solving using the tools available in LabVIEW._"	4_	EG1108/CG1108 / EE1002_

EE3013E_	Labview for Electrical Engineers_	"This module will give students some general computing as well as more specific software skills for solving engineering problems. LabVIEW is widely adopted software in the industry for data acquisition and instrument control. The teaching of LabVIEW will be based on engineering fundamentals that students have learnt in the first two years. This will also help them to consolidate concepts that have been learnt in the various technical modules. Through a series of integrated miniprojects carried out in the lab, students will be guided in their exploration of engineering principles and problem solving using the tools available in LabVIEW._"	4_	(EE2021E or TEE2027) and TG1401_

EE3030A_	Exploring Frugal Engineering_	"Frugal engineering is a philosophical approach to product design which addresses the needs of customers with very low purchasing power. In essence, it is about designing a product which meets the needs of customers who cannot afford products with “bells and whistles” features. Frugal engineering involves rethinking entire production and maintainance processes. It is not only a challenging mindset to inculcate in young budding engineers, but it is also a rich training ground to foster critical thinking skills which are pertinent to conceptualizing products that maximizes the value to customers. The objectives of this module is to expose students to frugal engineering through a field trip to the rural communities in the region to observe first-hand the way of life in such communities and to develop ideas of products which will bring benefit to a large segment of this community. Students will also engage with industries with a frugal engineering focus._"	3_	At least level 2 standing_
EE3030B_	Living Lab in the Communities_	"This module is about placing students in an active environment or community (Living Lab), providing them with opportunities to conceptualize products or services which will later be designed and developed in the ECE laboratories. The Living Labs (LL) may be rehabilitation centres in hospitals, orphanages, block of HDB flats, hawker centres, etc where good opportunities abound for technology to play a role in overall improvements of such places. Students in this module will spend 3 weeks conducting field work, observing and engaging users in the LL, with the objective of conceptualizing products/services which will benefit a large segment of the users. Students will be encouraged to realize their ideas in the other project modules in the curriculum._"	2_	At least level 2 standing_

EE3031_	Innovation & Enterprise I_	"This is an engineering module that focuses on the conceptualization, design and development of technology oriented new products. It integrates innovation, product planning, marketing, design and manufacturing functions of a company. This module gives students an opportunity to conceptualize and design a product which they will eventually prototype in another module (Innovation & Enterprise II). Thus it is designed for electrical engineering students to experience an integrated learning of innovation and enterprise pertaining to new product development where technology plays a central role. The major topics include innovation, opportunity management, identification of customers’ needs, product specification, design, planning, testing, manufacturing, and commercialization. Intellectual property and its relationship with all facets of new technology product design are also covered. Guest speakers from relevant industries will be invited to present practical aspects of innovation and new product development._"	4_	_

EE3031E_	Innovation & Enterprise I_	"This is an engineering module that focuses on the conceptualization, design and development of technology oriented new products. It integrates innovation, product planning, marketing, design and manufacturing functions of a company. This module gives students an opportunity to conceptualize and design a product which they will eventually be able to prototype. Thus it is designed for electrical engineering students to experience an integrated learning of innovation and enterprise pertaining to new product development where technology plays a central role. The major topics include innovation, opportunity management, identification of customers’ needs, product specification, design, planning, testing, manufacturing, and commercialization. Intellectual property and its relationship with all facets of new technology product design are also covered. Guest speakers from relevant industries will be invited to present practical aspects of innovation and new product development._"	4_	Level 3 standing_
EE3032_	Innovation & Enterprise II_	"In this module, students will work in a team project to design and build an electronic system which includes both digital and analog circuits and therefore requires both hardware and software design. The functionalities of the electronic system are determined by the students themselves. They will go through the steps of conceptual system design, detailed technical design, bread-board prototyping, printed circuit board implementation, system integration, testing & debugging and demonstration of the final working model. The project work will be continuously documented by each student in an individual project design portfolio._"	6_EE2024 Programming for Computer Interfaces_
EE3104C_	Introduction to RF and Microwave Systems & Circuits_	"Wireless communication and sensing systems play an ever increasing role in society. This module introduces the RF and microwave hardware systems and circuits.The applications include: GSM/CDMA, RFID, UWB, WLAN, Bluetooth, Zigbee, Radar and remote sensing_"	4_	PC2020 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2011 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE3104E_	Intro to RF and Microwave Sys & Circuits_	"Wireless communication and sensing systems play an ever increasing role in society. This module introduces the RF and microwave hardware systems and circuits.The applications include: GSM/CDMA, RFID, UWB, WLAN, Bluetooth, Zigbee, Radar and remote sensing_"	4_	EE2011E_
EE3131C_	Communication Systems_	"Introductory overview of analog and digital communications. Advantages of digital over analog communications in the presence of noise. Analog and digital modulation techniques. Source coding and waveform quantization techniques. Channel noise and channel coding for error protection. Multiplexing and multiple access. Basics of wireless communications. Applications of wireless systems. Radio wave propagation and multipath fading. Transmitter and receiver antennas. Free-space and fiber optical communication systems. Optical transmitters, optical receivers, and optical channels. Introduction to data communications. Packet switching, line coding, framing, and error detection._"	4_	EE2023 Signals & Systems_
EE3131E_	Communication Systems_	"Introductory overview of analog and digital communications. Advantages of digital over analog communications in the presence of noise. Analog and digital modulation techniques. Source coding and waveform quantization techniques. Channel noise and channel coding for error protection. Multiplexing and multiple access. Basics of wireless communications. Applications of wireless systems. Radio wave propagation and multipath fading. Transmitter and receiver antennas.Free-space and fiber optical communication systems. Optical transmitters, optical receivers, and optical channels. Introduction to data communications. Packet switching, line coding, framing, and error detection._"	4_	(EE2009E and EE2010E) or EE2023E_
EE3207E_	Computer Architecture_	"This course teaches students the basics in the design of the various classes of microprocessors. Contents include design of simple micro-controllers, high performance CPU design using parallel techniques, memory organization and parallel processing systems. Topics also include the development of support tools to enable efficient usage of the developed microprocessor. The course emphasizes practical design and students are expected to be able to synthesize microprocessors at the gate level at the end of this course._"	4_	EE2007E or EE2024E or TEE2028_
EE3208_	Embedded Computer Systems Design_	"This course introduces students to the design of embedded systems covering four key areas, namely, specifications and requirement determination, architectural design, software development and hardware development. The unified system design approach emphasizes hardware software co-design in the final synthesis of the application. Students will be brought through a design cycle in a realistic project. Topics covered include: System specification and requirement analysis; Object relationship and system structure; Quantifying behaviour; Targeting architecture: hardware/software partitioning; Resource estimation; Programmable platforms; Developing application software and targeting RTOS; Hardware design and implementation; System integration and debugging techniques; Design to meet regulatory standards._"	4_	CG2007/EE2024_
EE3208E_	Embedded Computer Systems Design_	"This course introduces students to the design of embedded systems covering four key areas, namely, specifications and requirement determination, architectural design, software development and hardware development. The unified system design approach emphasizes hardware software co-design in the final synthesis of the application. Students will be brought through a design cycle in a realistic project. Topics covered include: System specification and requirement analysis; Object relationship and system structure; Quantifying behaviour; Targeting architecture: hardware/software partitioning; Resource estimation; Programmable platforms; Developing application software and targeting RTOS; Hardware design and implementation; System integration and debugging techniques; Design to meet regulatory standards._"	4_	EE2007E or EE2024E or TEE2028_
EE3331C_	Feedback Control Systems_	"Feedback systems are ubiquitous in both the natural and engineered world. They are essential for maintaining our environment, enabling our transportation and communications systems; and are critical elements in our aerospace and industrial systems. For the most part, feedback control systems function accurately and reliably in the background. This course aims at introducing the magic of feedback, and tools for analysing and designing control systems. The  fundamental knowledge of feedback and the related area of control systems are useful to students with diverse interests. Topics covered include feedback principles, time and frequency analysis of control systems, and simple controller design._"	4_	EE2023 Signals and Systems_
EE3331E_	Feedback Control Systems_	"Feedback systems are ubiquitous in both the natural and engineered world. They are essential for maintaining our environment, enabling our transportation and communications systems; and are critical elements in our aerospace and industrial systems. For the most part, feedback control systems function accurately and reliably in the background. This course aims at introducing the magic of feedback, and tools for analysing and designing control systems. The  fundamental knowledge of feedback and the related area of control systems are useful to students with diverse interests. Topics covered include feedback principles, time and frequency analysis of control systems, and simple controller design._"	4_	EE2023E_
EE3408C_	Integrated Analog Design_	"This module focuses on integration of analog circuits on silicon using CMOS technology. The topics covered include processing and modeling background, basic circuits, reference circuit design, single stage amplifiers, operational amplifiers, noise issues and advanced design methods._"	4_	"CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after);EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_"
EE3408E_	Integrated Analog Design_	"This module focuses on integration of analog circuits on silicon using CMOS technology. The topics covered include processing and modeling background, basic circuits, reference circuit design, single stage amplifiers, operational amplifiers, noise issues and advanced design methods_"	4_	EE2021E or TEE2027_
EE3431C_	Microelectronics Materials and Devices_	"Electronic devices are the basic building blocks of all electronic gadgets used in our daily life. A solid understanding of the fundamental device concepts is essential for the electrical engineer to keep up with the fast evolution of new device technology. This module emphasizes on the properties of electronic materials and the operation principles of key electronic devices including p-n diode, bipolar junction transistor (BJT), MOS capacitor and (MOSCAP). Additional issues related to dielectricmaterials and non- semiconductor materials will be introduced. Contacts between metal and semiconductor will also be covered._"	4_	Co-req : EE2027 / CG2027 / EE2021_
EE3431E_	Microelectronics Materials and Devices_	"Electronic devices are the basic building blocks of all electronic gadgets used in our daily life. A solid understanding of the fundamental device concepts is essential for the electrical engineer to keep up with the fast evolution of new device technology. This module emphasizes on the properties of electronic materials and the operation principles of key electronic devices including p-n diode, bipolar junction transistor (BJT), MOS capacitor and (MOSCAP). Additional issues related to dielectric materials and non- semiconductor materials will be introduced. Contacts between metal and semiconductor will also be covered._"	4_	_
EE3501E_	Power Electronics_	"Power electronics forms an integral part of all electronics equipment from household appliances through information technology to transportation systems. This module develops the working knowledge, the foundation theory for generic power electronic circuits and the principles of their design. At the end of this module the student should be able to analyze and evaluate and carry out basic design of power electronics system for a large spectrum of applications. The topics covered are: Power semiconductor switches and characteristics. AC-to-DC converters and their performance. DC-to-DC converters: analysis and performance. DC-to-AC converters; analysis and performance. Switching circuits design and protection._"	4_	EE2005E or EE2021E or TEE2027_
EE3505C_	Electrical Energy Systems_	"The module covers generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy in large-scale modern power system. Upon completion of this course, students will be able to model, analyze, and predict the performance of three-phase systems, transformers, and transmission and distribution networks. The topics covered are: three-phase systems; real, reactive and apparent power. rotating magnetic field; synchronous and asynchronous machines; transformers; single line representation of three-phase systems; per unit notation; electricity transmission networks; high voltage cables; distribution systems; Singapore electricity network; power quality; harmonics; and environmental considerations._"	4_	EE1002 Introduction to Circuits and Systems / EG1108 Electrical Engineering / CG1108 Electrical Engineering_
EE3506C_	Intro to Elect Energy Systems_	"This module covers the fundamental principles of modern electrical energy systems; including three-phase analysis, electric generations, electric loads, and power electronic converters. The module is designed specifically to help students develop a broad systems perspective and an understanding of the principal elements of electrical energy systems. The expectation is that students completing the module will be able to handle adequately the electrical aspects of a range of applications. This will serve as the foundation of higher-level topics in power engineering. Furthermore, students will be prepared to work effectively with electrical engineers on the joint solution of complex problems._"	4_	"EG1112 / CG1111 (for AY2017 intake & after) ;EE1002 / EG1108 / CG1108 (for AY2016 & prior)_"
EE3702_	Electronic Gaming_	"The production of electronic games  whether on a computer, video console, or a handheld device  is a highly interdisciplinary and team-oriented task. This module provides a holistic overview (big picture) of electronic gaming and provides insights about the interplay of the single disciplines, components, and workflows. The course covers the basics of the games industry and game production, ranging from the business environment and development processes, to hardware platforms, game structures, and tool and technology basics. Students will be able to develop their own game product proposal in a group work project._"	4_	Level 3 standing_
EE3731C_	Signal Processing Methods_	"This module provides an introduction to signal processing methods. It is aimed at preparing students for high-level technical electives and graduate modules in signal processing and new media. The topics covered include: digital filtering, multirate digital signal processing, introduction to wavelet transform, probability and random signals, stochastic processes, singular value decomposition, principle component analysis and multimedia applications._"	4_	(EE2012 or ST2334) and EE2023_
EE3731E_	Signal Processing Methods_	"This module provides an introduction to signal processing methods. It aimed at preparing students for high-level technical electives and graduate modules in signal processing and new media. The topics covered include: digital filtering, multirate digital signal processing, introduction to wavelet transform, probability and random signals, Wiener filter, AMAR model, linear prediction, singular value decomposition, principle component analysis and multimedia applications._"	4_	TE2003 and EE2023E_

EE4001_	B.Eng. Dissertation_	"In this module, students will do a research project over two semesters on a topic of current interest in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Students learn how to apply skills acquired in the classroom and also think of innovative ways of solving problems. Apart from intrinsic rewards such as the pleasure of problem solving, students are able to acquire skills for independent and lifelong learning. The objective of this module is to teach skills, such as questioning, forming hypotheses and gathering evidence. Students learn to work in a research environment._"	12_	Level 4 Standing_

EE4002D_	Design Capstone_	"In this module, students will do a team project that involves a varied mix of research, design and development components. It is carried out over two semesters on a topic of current interest in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Students learn how to apply knowledge and skills acquired in the classroom and also think of innovative ways of solving complex problems. Apart from problem solving, students are able to acquire skills for independent lifelong learning, teamwork and effective communication._"	8_	Level 3 Standing_

EE4031_	Intellectual Property: Harnessing Innovation_	This module takes a hands-on approach to IP management from early stages of technology and inventions to the later stages of commercialization. The idea is to provide pragmatic knowledge dealing with one of the most exciting avenues for economic growth and wealth creation. Those planning to pursue the path of a practising engineer will find the module most useful._	2_	_

EE4101_	RF Communications_	"Radio and microwave systems are used for information transmission.  This module therefore introduces the student to a broad range of enabling knowledge and skills commonly employed by RF and microwave engineers to specify, analyse and design radio and microwave transmission systems.  Topics covered:  Time-varying EM fields: guided waves, evanescent modes and plane-wave propagation. Radiation: radiation mechanism, magnetic vector potential, current distribution on a thin wire, Hertzian dipole, Half-wave dipole & monopole. RF Antennas: parameters, aperture antennas and arrays.  RF Amplification: stability, gain and small-signal narrowband design.  RF Generation:  conditions for oscillation, oscillator design and dielectric resonators.   RF Receivers:  receiver and mixer parameters.  RF Systems: system gain and noise figure, satellite and terrestrial systems._"	4_	EE3104C_
EE4101E_	Radio-Frequency (RF) Communications_	"Radio and microwave systems are used for information transmission.  This module therefore introduces the student to a broad range of enabling knowledge and skills commonly employed by RF and microwave engineers to specify, analyse and design radio and microwave transmission systems.  Topics covered:  Time-varying EM fields: guided waves, evanescent modes and plane-wave propagation. Radiation: radiation mechanism, magnetic vector potential, current distribution on a thin wire, Hertzian dipole, Half-wave dipole & monopole. RF Antennas: parameters, aperture antennas and arrays.  RF Amplification: stability, gain and small-signal narrowband design.  RF Generation:  conditions for oscillation, oscillator design and dielectric resonators.   RF Receivers:  receiver and mixer parameters.  RF Systems: system gain and noise figure, satellite and terrestrial systems._"	4_	EE2011E_
EE4102_	Digital Communications_	"This course begins with the review of mathematical preliminaries such as probability, random process and signal space concepts. It covers the design of modulation and optimum demodulation methods for digital communications over an additive white Gaussian noise channel. Emphasis will be placed on error rate performance for the various digital signaling techniques (ASK, BPSK, FSK, MPSK, QAM, OQPSK, CPM, MSK and GMSK) and on the channel bandwidth requirements. Subsequently, the course will focus on channel coding (Block codes and Convolutional codes), channel equalization and carrier, symbol synchronization._"	4_	EE3103_
EE4103_	Coding Theory And Applications_	"Coding techniques are used for data compression and reliable communication of digital information over imperfect channels. This module introduces students to a wide range of standard enabling techniques and methods that are deployed in the telecommunications and computing industries. The topics covered are: information measures, source and channel models, various source coding schemes including Huffman coding, run-length coding, linear predictive coding, transform coding, and various channel coding schemes including cyclic codes, BCH codes, Reed-Solomon codes and convolutional codes._"	4_	EE2012_
EE4104_	Microwave Circuits & Devices_	"Microwave amplifiers, oscillators, mixer and detectors, and electronic switches are basic components of microwave systems. The performance of these components is critical to system performance. This module therefore teaches the design of these components to satisfy performance specifications. Topics covered: Amplifiers: theory, LNA and multistage design; Oscillator theory: nonlinear negative resistance, startup, stability, power generation; Gunn and IMPATT diode oscillators; Design of planar passive components and their application; PIN diode switch and phase shifter analysis and design; Mixers and detectors:  theory, mixer and detector diodes, diode detectors and mixers._"	4_	EE3104C_
EE4109_	Spread Spectrum Communications_	"Spread spectrum modulation is the enabling technology for many current mobile wireless communication systems and is a leading candidate for next generation communication systems. This module introduces students to spread spectrum communications, including modulation (direct-sequence and frequency hopping) and detection (single and multiuser). The topics covered also include wireless fading channels, sequence design (binary shift register sequences), sequence acquisition/tracking, cellular communications and the application of spread spectrum to Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) systems._"	4_	Co-requisite: EE4102_
EE4110_	RFIC and MMIC Design_	"Solid-state microwave circuits are usually realised using planar technologies, which integrate some or all components on a substrate.  Moreover, monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) enable commercial application of microwave technology.  This module therefore teaches design methods for microwave integrated circuits. Topics covered:  review of design concepts. MIC Design: fabrication techniques, modeling of active and passive networks, microstrip and coplanar lines. MMIC Design: lump element design, foundry rules, modeling of active and passive networks, design techniques - Layout and DRC Checks.   Selected Hands-on design work on (a) Passive Network - MIC filter and coupler, and (b) Active Network - MMIC oscillator and mixer._"	4_	EE3104C_
EE4112_	Radio Frequency Design and Systems_	"Radio and microwave systems rely on efficient transmission and distribution of electromagnetic (EM) energy. Radio and microwave systems need to be immune from external EM interference and need to ensure that they do not cause interference of their own. To achieve these requirements, this module will equip and foster the students with balanced and particularly more hands-on oriented contents on radio frequency (RF) designs and practical systems, through live experiments, software learning, and real-life RF examples. Topics covered: transmission systems, resonator cavity, impedance matching network, electromagnetic interference (EMI) and shielding, multi-port scattering and corresponding measurement methods, radiation, and antenna characterizations._"	4_	EE3104C_
EE4112E_	Radio Frequency Design and Systems_	"Radio and microwave systems rely on efficient transmission and distribution of electromagnetic (EM) energy. Radio and microwave systems need to be immune from external EM interference and need to ensure that they do not cause interference of their own. To achieve these requirements, this module will equip and foster the students with balanced and particularly more hands-on oriented contents on radio frequency (RF) designs and practical systems, through live experiments, software learning, and real-life RF examples. Topics covered: transmission systems, resonator cavity, impedance matching network, electromagnetic interference (EMI) and shielding, multi-port scattering and corresponding measurement methods, radiation, and antenna characterizations._"	4_	EE2011E_
EE4113_	Digital Communications & Coding_	This course begins with a review of mathematical preliminaries such as random processes and signal space concepts. It covers the design of modulation and demodulation schemes for digital communications over an additive white Gaussian noise channel. Emphasis will be placed on error rate performance for various digital signaling techniques and on error control coding techniques for reliable communications._	4_	EE2012/ST2334 & EE3131C_
EE4113E_	Digital Communications & Coding_	"This course begins with a review of mathematical preliminaries such as random processes and signal space concepts. It covers the design of modulation and demodulation schemes for digital communications over an additive white Gaussian noise channel. Emphasis will be placed on error rate performance for various digital signaling techniques and on error control coding techniques for reliable communications. Topics include the optimal receiver principle, modulation/demodulation techniques, signaling over band limited channels and important channel codes such as Reed-Solomon codes, turbo codes and LDPC codes._"	4_	TE2003 & (EE3103E or EE3131E)_
EE4114_	Optical Communications_	"This module offers an introduction to the fundamental principles and components of optical communication systems. The module objective is to provide a basic understanding of present optical communication systems as well as future engineering challenges. To this end, the module covers the basic concepts of fiber optics, data modulation in optical fiber channels, management of fiber degrading effects, and wavelength division multiplexing. It also includes the basic constituent components of optical communication systems, including transmitters, receivers, optical amplifiers, and optical fibers._"	4_	EE3131C_
EE4131_	Random Signals_	"This module is designed to serve as a first course in stochastic signal analysis-and-processing for senior and graduate engineering students. It aims to bridge the gap between the elements of probability theory, as taught in early undergraduate level modules, and the basic concepts needed in contemporary signal processing applications. Topics include: general concepts and classification of random variables and stochastic processes; transformation of random variables; effects of linear time-invariant filtering on the autocorrelation function and power spectrum of a stochastic process; Gaussian, chi and chi-square statistics; random binary signals, random walk process, Wiener-Lévy process; Poisson and related processes; random telegraph signals._"	4_	"EE2012 Analytical Methods in ECE orST2334 Probability and StatisticsandEE2023 Signals and Systems_"
EE4204_	Computer Networks_	"This module provides an in-depth treatment of fundamental topics  of network design based on the Internet protocol stack model. It is aimed at making students understand how networks work through understanding of the underlying principles of sound network design.  This course covers topics including  network requirements, architecture, protocol stack models, Ethernet  Token Ring,  Wireless, and FDDI networks, bridges, switching and routing in IP and ATM networks,  and internetworking. Apart from learning the concepts in networks, the students will gain expertise in analyzing and designing networking protocols through mini-projects._"	4_	EE2012 / ST2334._
EE4204E_	Computer Networks_	"This module provides an in-depth treatment of fundamental topics  of network design based on the Internet protocol stack model. It is aimed at making students understand how networks work through understanding of the underlying principles of sound network design.  This course covers topics including  network requirements, architecture, protocol stack models, Ethernet  Token Ring,  Wireless, and FDDI networks, bridges, switching and routing in IP and ATM networks,  and internetworking. Apart from learning the concepts in networks, the students will gain expertise in analyzing and designing networking protocols through mini-projects._"	4_	TE2003_
EE4210_	Network Protocols and Applications_	"This advanced networking module aims to equip students with the basics and theories of Internet-related technologies, which are necessary for computer/network engineers. The topics that will be covered include Internet architecture, Internet applications and their protocols (HTTP, FTP, DNS, Email, P2P, BitTorrent, etc.), wireless and mobile networks, mobility management, multimedia networking, and network security._"	4_	EE2012 or ST2334_
EE4210E_	Network Protocols and Applications_	"The course will enable students to know the basics and theories of Internet-related tenchologies which offer the background knowledge & skills required for computer or network engineers.  Contents covered include Internet Architecture & client/server applications, Client & Server Computing, Internetworking concepts & Architectural Model, Transport protocols:  UDP/TCP, TCP/IP socket programming, Routing protocols, Domain Name System, Mobile IP, and Next Generation IP._"	4_	TE2003_
EE4211_	Data Science for the Internet of Things_	"This module covers data analytics for the Internet of Things. It starts with an introduction to the Internet of Things (IoT) systems, including the enabling technologies, IoT network architectures and protocols. IoT systems have applications such as semiconductor manufacturing, smart power grids, and healthcare. The module then covers data science fundamentals such as Bayesian statistics, classification, supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and deep learning. The module also covers basic machine learning algorithms such as decision trees, logistic regression, support vector machines, and neural networks. Students will visualize and analyze real-world data sets via practical IoT case studies._"	4_	_
EE4212_	Computer Vision_	"The goal of this module is to introduce the students to the problems and solutions of modern computer vision, with the main emphasis on recovering properties of the 3D world from image and video sequence. After this module, students are expected to be able to understand and compute the basic geometric and photometric properties of the 3D world (such as point depth and surface orientation), and to apply various methods for video manipulation such as segmentation, matting, and composition. Main topics covered include: Singular value decomposition, projective geometry, Marr's paradigm, calibration problems, correspondence and flow, epipolar geometry, motion estimation, reflectance models, shape from shading, photometric stereo, color processing, texture analysis and synthesis, advanced segmentation, matting and composition techniques._"	4_	"MA1508E and EE3731C/EE4704 (for AY2017 intake & after) ;EE3206 or EE3731C (for AY2016 intake & prior)_"
EE4213_	Image and Video Processing_	"Image perception such as color, etc will be covered in EE4212, and hence this topic is deleted. Coverage of some enhancement topics is deleted, as these are covered in EE3206, restoration is streamlined. About four hours would be saved through this which will be utilized towards topics in video processing such as representation, block based motion estimation, motion compensated filtering and coding._"	4_	EE3206_
EE4214_	Real-Time Embedded Systems_	"The objectives of this module are to present the theoretical foundations of real-time systems and to discuss the practical aspects of their implementation. It describes the characteristics of a real-time computing system and students are taught how to design a real-time embedded system using structured data flow methodology. Concepts of time-critical I/O and real-time deadlines are emphasized, as are the important aspects of real-time operating systems, scheduling and the practical implementation of embedded systems and firmware. Other topics covered include deadlock management and process communications. Various case studies on industrial real-time systems will be exhibited to give students a real-world feel for such systems. Students will undertake a mini project involving a real-time embedded system. Topics covered: Introduction to real-time and embedded systems; Time critical I/O handling; Real-time embedded software design; Concurrent programming; Real-time operating systems; Scheduling and time-critical processing; Deadlock management; Process communications; Case studies of real-time embedded systems._"	4_	CG2007/EE2024_
EE4214E_	Real-Time Embedded Systems_	"The objectives of this module are to present the theoretical foundations of real-time systems and to discuss the practical aspects of their implementation. It describes the characteristics of a real-time computing system and students are taught how to design a real-time embedded system using structured data flow methodology. Concepts of time-critical I/O and real-time deadlines are emphasized, as are the important aspects of real-time operating systems, scheduling and the practical implementation of embedded systems and firmware. Other topics covered include deadlock management and process communications. Various case studies on industrial real-time systems will be exhibited to give students a real-world feel for such systems. Students will undertake a mini project involving a real-time embedded system. Topics covered: Introduction to real-time and embedded systems; Time critical I/O handling; Real-time embedded software design; Concurrent programming; Real-time operating systems; Scheduling and time-critical processing; Deadlock management; Process communications; Case studies of real-time embedded systems._"	4_	TE2101 and (EE2024E or TEE2028)_
EE4217_	Technology Of Digital Entertainment_	"Digital Entertainment is a new and highly promising market, and its products and services have become increasingly popular in recent years. The underlying technologies have been in a continuous state of innovation since their inception. In this module we address the unique practical and theoretical issues of digital entertainment. The major topics covered include: Digital Media Technology, Digital Imaging Devices, Computer-Human Interaction, Game Design and Programming, Gaming Hardware, and Mobile Entertainment._"	4_	_

EE4218_	Embedded Hardware System Design_	"The goal of this module is to enable students to understand and be able to practise the principles of designing complex embedded systems. After completing this module, students must be able to translate system specifications into executable computation models using a high level specification language and map these formal specifications into a register-transfer level hardware description language (HDL) that can be implemented on an FPGA. Main topics covered include: Methodology for designing embedded systems; specification and modelling of systems; architectures of embedded systems; mapping specifications into architectures; rapid prototyping on FPGA platforms. Students are required to implement an embedded system by going though the complete design flow with state-of-the-art Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools._"	4_	EE2028 or CG2028 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2024 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4302_	Advanced Control Systems_	"This module provides the foundation for a more advanced level control systems course. Topics include system description, controllability, observability, selection of pole locations for good design, observer design, full-order and reduced-order observers, combined control law and observer. It is also a first course in nonlinear systems and control. Topics include non-linearities in control systems, use of root-locus in analysis of non-linear systems, describing function and its use in analysis and design of control systems, non-linear ordinary differential equations, singular points, and phase-plane analysis._"	4_	EE3331C_
EE4303_	Industrial Control Systems_	"This module will cover sensors, instrumentation and control systems commonly used in the industry. The sensor and instrumentation part includes topics such as signal processing and conversion, transducers and actuators, instrumentation amplifiers, non-linear amplifiers, issues pertaining to grounds, shields and power supplies. The control portion covers the evolution and types of control systems, centralized control, direct digital control (DDC), distributed control systems (DCS), fieldbuses, PID control: tuning methods and refinements, auto-tuning principles and implementation, available industrial PID controllers and their operation. It will include other common control systems such as feed-forward, cascade, ratio, selective, split range, time-delay compensation, sequence control and PLC._"	4_	EE3331C_
EE4303E_	Industrial Control Systems_	"This module will cover sensors, instrumentation and control systems commonly used in the industry. The sensor and instrumentation part includes topics such as signal processing and conversion, transducers and actuators, instrumentation amplifiers, non-linear amplifiers, issues pertaining to grounds, shields and power supplies. The control portion covers the evolution and types of control systems, centralized control, direct digital control (DDC), distributed control systems (DCS), fieldbuses, PID control: tuning methods and refinements, auto-tuning principles and implementation, available industrial PID controllers and their operation. It will include other common control systems such as feed-forward, cascade, ratio, selective, split range, time-delay compensation, sequence control and PLC._"	4_	EE2010E or EE3331E_
EE4304_	Digital Control Systems_	"This module provides students with system theory, analysis tools and design methods in discrete-time domain. It is the first course in control and automation that systematically introduces the basic concepts and principles in sampling, Z-transform, zero-order-hold, discrete equivalence and the relations to discrete-time control design. It further examines the design issues for digital PID, PID auto-tuning, phase compensator, and the model predictive control, including the performance criteria, pole-placement, as well as numerous illustrative application examples._"	4_	"EE2010EE3331C_"
EE4305_	Introduction To Fuzzy / Neural Systems_	"This module introduces students to the fundamental knowledge, theories and applications of fuzzy logic and neural networks. It examines the principles of fuzzy sets and fuzzy logic, which leads to fuzzy inference and control. It also gives students an understanding of the structures and learning process of a neural network. Topics covered include: fuzzy set theory, fuzzy systems and control, basic concepts of neural networks, single-layer and multilayer perceptrons, self-organizing maps and neural network training._"	4_	EE2023_
EE4305E_	Introduction To Fuzzy/Neural Systems_	"This module introduces students to the fundamental knowledge, theories and applications of fuzzy logic and neural networks. It examines the principles of fuzzy sets and fuzzy logic, which leads to fuzzy inference and control. It also gives students an understanding of the structures and learning process of a neural network. Topics covered include: fuzzy set theory, fuzzy systems and control, basic concepts of neural networks, single-layer and multilayer perceptrons, self-organizing maps and neural network training._"	4_	EE2010E or EE2023E_
EE4306_	Distributed Autonomous Robotic Systems_	"The module distributed autonomous robotic systems will cover topics such as multi-agent systems, multiple robotic systems and computational intelligence. The tools presented include genetic algorithms, simulated annealing, soft computing and multi-objective optimisation. Some applications to pattern recognition, function mapping, sensor fusion, obstacle avoidance and learning in robotic systems are also presented._"	4_	EE3331C_
EE4307_	Control Systems Design And Simulation_	"This 100% CA module introduces students to the various stages in the design cycle of a closed-loop control system, namely modeling, identification, simulation, controller design and implementation. Students will appreciate the concepts of models and model structures, the ways to obtain them and their applications. Two modeling approaches will be covered; physical modeling which includes the principles and phases ofmodeling using basic physical relationships, and identification approaches covering both non-parametric and parametric identification.  Practical issues in modeling, including instrument calibration, model structure selection, data collection configuration, selection of test signals and model validation will also be duly covered. Via  project work, students will consolidate the topics covered in class with hands-on experience in modeling, simulating and controlling real systems. They will be equipped with useful practical skills at the end of this course._"	4_	EE3331C_
EE4308_	Advances in Intelligent Systems and Robotics_	"The module ‘Advances in Intelligent Systems and Robotics’ will cover topics such as mobile robots, autonomous robotic systems, multiple mobile robotic systems, unmanned aerial vehicles and cyber physical security. Applications to multiple mobile robot path planning, multi-sensor fusion, obstacle avoidance and learning in robotic systems will be presented. An animated virtual-robot learning platform will be used for gaining hands on experience in designing autonomous robots, terrain building, path planning, obstacle avoidance and robot control._"	4_	EE3331C Feedback Control Systems_
EE4401_	Optoelectronics_	"Optoelectronics is the study of the interaction of light/radiation with the electronic properties of matter, which are mainly but not exclusively semiconductor-based. This module is designed with a mix of theory and application, emphasizing both the fundamental principles underlying device operation and the relevant technology in the photonics industry. At the end of the module, the student will be equipped with the basic physics of light production, emission and modulation, in semiconductors, electro-optic crystals and liquid crystal substances, and their application in display components and devices, and optical communications. Experiments on optical heterodyning, liquid crystal modulation and characteristics of semiconductor lasers and LEDs are included for practical hands-on experience. Topics covered include basic photometry and radiometry; bandgap engineering in III-V and II-VI compound semiconductors, exciton, isoelectronic traps; LED, semiconductor laser, photodetectors, optical modulators, liquid crystals, display technologies, and recent advances e.g. nanophotonics, organic LEDs and quantum well detectors. Topics covered: Basic photometry and radiometry. Bandgap engineering in III-V and II-VI compound semiconductors. Exciton, isoelectronic traps. LED, semiconductor laser and photodetector device structure and operational characteristics. Optical modulators. Liquid crystal displays. Nanophotonics._"	4_	EE3431C or equivalent_
EE4407_	Analog Electronics_	"This module builds on the basic concepts in electronics which students learnt in EE2021. This will enable students to design complex electronic circuits and systems for processing analog signals. Topics covered: Passive filters, poles and zeros; Transistor amplifiers, Negative feedback amplifiers; Oscillators; Mixers, modulators and demodulators for communication systems; Instrumentation amplifiers, CMRR; DC power supply design: Linear and switching regulators, current limiting; Power amplifiers: Output stage, efficiency and distortion; Active filters; Interconnections: propagation of signal and energy in transmission lines; and introduction of design techniques for integrated circuits (IC)._"	4_	"EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior) ;CG2027 or EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after)_"
EE4407E_	Analog Electronics_	"This module provides students with essential concepts in electronics to enable them to understand and design complex electronics circuits and systems for processing analog signals.Topics covered: Techniques for implementing specific amplifier frequency response involving poles and time constants; Negative feedback amplifiers; Oscillators: RC, LC and crystal-controlled oscillators; Power amplifiers: Output stage, efficiency and distortion; DC power supply design: Linear and switching regulators, current limiting; Mixer, modulators and demodulators for communication systems; Active filters; Instrumentation amplifiers, CMRR; Applications of current mirror circuits._"	4_	EE2021E or TEE2027_
EE4408_	Silicon Device Reliability_	"This module provides an overview of the general failure mechanisms in integrated circuits and three MOS technology specific reliability mechanisms (i.e., CMOS latchup, gate oxide reliability and hot carrier reliability). A brief introduction on the failure analysis methodology will also be covered. At the end of this module, students will gain a basic understanding of the various failure/reliability issues in silicon devices.  Topics covered: Introduction to IC Failure Analysis. General failure mechanisms in integrated circuits: Bonding, packaging and metallization failures. Electrical stress failures: electromigration and ESD/EOS. Technology specific reliability mechanisms: CMOS latchup, gate oxide reliability and hot-carrier reliability._"	4_	EE2021_
EE4409_	Modern Microelectronic Devices & Sensors_	"This module first gives an introduction of microelectronic devices applicable to IoT systems and applications deployed in our day-to-day modern gadgets/equipment, e.g., smartphones, wearable electronics and driverless cars. The devices include sensors for sensing various types of physical parameters (temperature, speed, position, etc.), storage devices, etc. The working principles of these devices will be described pertaining to an application. Specifications, usability and, key features of these devices will also be analysed so that students will learn how to utilize these devices in a wide range of IoT related applications such as health care, transportation, etc._"	4_	CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4410_	Integrated Circuit And System Design_	"This module provides an opportunity for students to learn analog and mixed-signal IC design through an integrated circuit prototyping project using commercial design flows. The module spans in two semesters.  The chip design and test are carried out in the first and second semester, respectively. The chip fabrication is done at an external foundry during the semester break. Lectures are given at the beginning of the two semesters, covering the project related topics and other important issues in IC design. This module is targeted at those electrical engineering students who have strong interests in IC design. The module is based on continuous assessment._"	8_	E3408C_
EE4410A_	Integrated Circuit Design_	"This module is offered to electrical engineering students who have strong interests in integrated circuit (IC) design. It teaches students analog and mixed-signal IC design through an integrated circuit chip design project using commercial design flows. Intensive lectures pertaining to the project will be delivered in the first week. The lectures cover topics in noise analysis and reduction layout design, electrostatic discharge (ESD), latch up and testability. Students will then proceed with the design according to the given specifications for their projects. The design is carried out in a team of usually 3 students._"	4_	EE3408C_

EE4411_	Silicon Processing Technology_	"This module focuses on the major process technologies used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and other microelectronic devices. Each lecture topic covers important scientific aspects of silicon wafer processing steps. Simulations and laboratory experiments provide hands-on experience on basic operation and fabrication of MOS devices. Topics include: crystal growth and wafer preparation, epitaxy, oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, lithography, plasma technology, etching, deposition, and metallization._"	4_	EE2021_
EE4412_	Technology & Modelling Of Si Transistors_	"This module covers the operation, modeling and fabrication of silicon bipolar and MOS transistors, the understanding of which is essential for the integrated circuit engineer.  At the end of this module, students will gain a good understanding of the issues regarding the design and fabrication of modern silicon transistors as their dimensions continue to shrink. They will be exposed to the basic techniques of modeling, simulation and technology of these devices. Topics covered: MOS Capacitor: C-V characteristics, physical models; MOSFETs: long and short channel devices, threshold voltage, subthreshold behaviour, device scaling, short-channel effects, gate, drain and dielectric engineering; Bipolar transistors: structures and operations, high current effects, emitter, base and collector engineering; Polyemitter and Si-Ge heterojunction transistors; CMOS, bipolar and BiCMOS technology._"	4_	EE2021_
EE4415_	Integrated Digital Design_	"This module introduces the students to the design of integrated circuits. It covers basic concepts including integrated circuits fabrication technology, CMOS and nMOS design, inverter design, aspect ratios of pull-up and pull-down transistors, switching characteristics of CMOS and nMOS inverters, latch-up, stick diagram, design rules, mask layout, sub-systems design, ASIC challenges and issues, ASIC design flow, Verilog hardware design language basics, and logic synthesis. Each student will do a design exercise using the EDA tools._"	4_	EE2026 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2020 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4415E_	Integrated Digital Design_	"This module introduces the students to the design of integrated circuits. It covers basic concepts including integrated circuits fabrication technology, CMOS and nMOS design, inverter design, aspect ratios of pull-up and pull-down transistors, switching characteristics of CMOS and nMOS inverters, latch-up, stick diagram, design rules, mask layout, sub-systems design, ASIC challenges and issues, ASIC design flow, Verilog hardware design language basics, and logic synthesis. Each student will do a design exercise using the EDA tools._"	4_	EE2006E or EE2020E or TEE2026_
EE4431_	Nano-Device Engineering_	"As devices scale down, quantum effects become important when their size reaches the nanometer regime (typically 100 nanometers or less). Devices with nanometer features, i.e., nano-devices, exhibit properties different from conventional bulk devices. The making of nanodevices, e.g., single electron transistor, carbon nanotube/ graphene transistor, spintronic devices, quantum well/dot laser, has been made possible by the emergence of the nano-processing and characterization tools. This module aims to provide an introductory coverage on the concepts and principles that form the basis for understanding an interdisciplinary field with an emphasis on electrical engineering. Topics covered include nano-lithography, nano-layering, nano-characterization, and nano-devices._"	4_	Either EE3431C Microelectronics Materials & Devices or EE3406 Microelectronics Materials_

EE4432_	Devices for Electric Energy Generation_	"This module covers the theory, operating principles, and basic function of (i) photovoltaic, thermoelectric, and fuel cell-based electric energy generation devices and (ii) electric energy storage systems. Major topics covered are the photovoltaic (PV) effect, solar cells (silicon wafer cells, thin-film cells, organic cells), PV modules, the thermoelectric effect, thermoelectric devices, fuel cells (proton exchange membrane cells, high-temperature cells), pumped hydroelectric energy, compressed air energy, flywheels, rechargeable batteries (lead-acid, lithium ion, etc), electrolytic hydrogen, and supercapacitors._"	4_	EE2021 Devices and circuits_
EE4433_	Nanometer Scale Information Storage_	"Information storage is indispensable for every computerized system. Currently there are three major types of information storage technologies, i.e., magnetic data storage, optical disks, and solid-state memories. Although the operation principles are different, the common driving force for all these surface-based information storage technologies in the last few decades was the reduction of bit size so as to make it possible to store more data on a specific surface area. As a result, all these data storage devices are now operating in the nanometer regime. This module adopts a model-based approach to introduce information storage through focusing on the basic principles of various types of data storage systems and the associated roles of nanotechnology in each field. Emphasis will be on materials, devices and technologies that have made it possible to maintain a remarkable growth rate in storage density in the last decades and emerging technologies for tackling challenges ahead. Topics covered include solid state memory, optical disks, magnetic recording, and emerging technologies._"	4_	PC2232 and EE3431C/EE3406_
EE4434_	"Integrated Circuit Technology, Design and Testing_"	"This module aims to introduce students to the industry practice on the technology, design, layout and testing of digital and memory integrated circuits (IC). Students will be introduced to the different types of devices which are manufactured in a foundry. Students will learn about the ideas of design for testability through lectures, hands on exposure to different testing and debugging tools and industrial visits. Specific topics include wafer technology and devices, digital logic and memory design and layout, fundamentals of digital and static random access memory (SRAM) testing, design for testability, fault isolation and electrical characterization._"	4_	EE2026 and CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2020 and EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4435_	Modern Transistors and Memory Devices_	"This module is designed to equip students with the physical foundation of metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) device physics and the theoretical background for understanding end applications in modern transistors and memory devices (e.g., Flash, phase change random access memory, etc.). Upon the successful completion of this module, the student is expected to gain an understanding on the principles of operation and physics of modern MOS transistors and memory devices. Such knowledge is useful for careers in the wafer fabrication plants, foundries, design houses and the microelectronics industry._"	4_	CG2027/EE2027 and co-req EE3431C (for AY2017 intake & after) ; Pre-req EE2021 and co-req EE3431C (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4435E_	Modern Transistors and Memory Devices_	"This module is designed to equip students with the physical foundation of metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) device physics and the theoretical background for understanding end applications in modern transistors and memory devices (e.g., Flash, phase change random access memory, etc.). Upon the successful completion of this module, the student is expected to gain an understanding on the principles of operation and physics of modern MOS transistors and memory devices. Such knowledge is useful for careers in the wafer fabrication plants, foundries, design houses and the microelectronics industry._"	4_	EE2021E or TEE2027_
EE4436_	Fabrication Process Technology_	"In the new information age, fabrication process technology continues to be employed in the manufacturing of ultrahigh density integrated circuits such as microprocessor devices in computers. This module focuses on the major process technologies and basic building blocks used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and other microelectronic devices (e.g., solar cells). Understanding of fabrication processes is essential for undergraduate students who wish to develop their professional career in the microelectronics industry such as in wafer fabrication plants, foundries and design houses._"	4_	CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4436E_	Fabrication Process Technology_	"In the new information age, fabrication process technology continues to be employed in the manufacturing of ultra-high density integrated circuits such as microprocessor devices in computers. This module focuses on the major process technologies and basic building blocks used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and other microelectronic devices (e.g., solar cells). Understanding of fabrication processes is essential for undergraduate students who wish to develop their professional career in the microelectronics industry such as in wafer fabrication plants, foundries and design houses._"	4_	EE2021E or TEE2027_
EE4437_	Photonics - Principles and Applications_	"Photonics technology is everywhere around us, and disruptive advances in photonics have impacted our everyday lives, e.g., LED lighting, flexible OLED displays in mobile phones, ultra-thin and curved television displays. This course will introduce the underlying photonic principles underlying these recent photonic applications, i.e., the generation, modulation and detection of light, and their application. Emphasis is placed on the fundamentals of device operation and their use in current photonic devices and applications. The aim is to equip students to meet the demand of the expanding optoelectronic industry and to prepare them for  advanced study and research in photonic technology. Topics include introduction to photometry, and electro-optical properties of semiconductors and lowdimensional semiconductor structures, as well as applications such as light emitting devices, lasers, detectors, modulators and displays. Recent advances e.g. quantum devices, and organic LEDs and photonic crystals will also be introduced._"	4_	CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4438_	Solar Cells and Modules_	"This module covers the theory, operating principles, and basic function of solar cells and photovoltaic modules. Major topics covered are the status of the PV market, the properties of sunlight, properties of semiconductors, efficiency limits of solar cells, carrier properties in semiconductors, currents in p-n diodes in the dark and under illumination, computer simulation of solar cells, characterisation of solar cells, technology of silicon wafer solar cells, technology of thin-film solar cells, properties of interconnected solar cells, technology of PV modules, and the characterisation and testing of PV modules_"	4_	CG2027/EE2027 (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4501_	Power System Management And Protection_	"Modelling of power systes: bus admittance and bus impedance matrices, network building algorithms. Load flow studies: problem formulation, computer solution techniques; economic load dispatch. Energy market restructuring. Fault analysis: symmetrical components, sequence impedance networks, symmetrical and unsymmetrical faults. Protection: components, differential, and earth fault protection systems._"	4_	"EE3505C (for AY2016 intake & prior) ;EE3506C (for AY2017 intake & after)_"
EE4502_	Electric Drives & Control_	"Motion control in industrial, commercial and transportation systems is carried out using electric drives. This module provides students with the working knowledge of various components of an electrical drive system and their control for efficient energy conversion. Students would be taught the basic principle of operation of variable speed DC and AC Drive systems. After completion of this module, students are expected to select and size electrical drives for any given application and should be able to perform design of different drive components. The topics covered are: Characteristics and sizing of power semiconductor controlled electric drives; DC motor drives: speed and torque control; Induction motor drives: voltage control and variable frequency control; Drives application examples._"	4_	"Pre-req: EE2025.  Co-req: EE3505C - for AY2016 intake ; Co-req: EE3506C - for AY2017 intake_" EE4503_	Advanced Power Electronics_	"Power electronics is an enabling technology used widely in electric power processing unit. It is an integral part of all electronic equipment from household appliances through information technology to transportation systems. This module provides working principles and design for power electronic converter circuits. After going through this module, students should be able to analyze, evaluate and carry out design of power electronic circuits for a large variety of applications. The topics covered are: Power semiconductor devices and terminal characteristics. Switching circuits design and protection circuits. AC-DC converters, DC-DC converters and DC-AC converters: analysis and performance evaluation._"	4_	EE3505C Electrical Energy Systems / EE3506C Introduction to Electrical Energy Systems_
EE4505_	Power Semiconductor Devices & ICs_	"The module provides a state-of-the-art overview of devices, development and basic understanding of the physics of power semiconductors. The module covers: Carrier physics in power devices: mobility, resistivity, life-time, high-level injection; Breakdown voltage and junction termination: avalanche breakdown, punch-through breakdown; Power devices: power MOSFET for synchronous rectifiers, power diode and recovery phenomena, power transistor and quasi-saturation effects, gate turn-off thyristor, MOS-controlled bipolar device; Smart power ICs: evolution, high-voltage power MOSFETs in integrated circuits, technological limitations in power ICs, protection techniques in power ICs._"	4_	EE and CEG students of stage 3 and above (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4506_	Magnetic Recording Systems_	"This course introduces the principle of operation and design aspects of magnetic recording systems. It introduces the key issues involved in the design and system level integration of disk drives. Students will be exposed to current practice and new trends through both theory and practice in the laboratory. Topics covered include: Basics of magnetic recording and playback, different types of heads used for recording and playback, modeling and mathematical representation of recording/playback process, design and fabrication process for heads and disks. Integration of different components of hard disk drive, signal processing for recording and playback, servomechanism for access of data, efficiency of recording and encoding of data, reliability of recording and error correction codes, transfer of data between hard disk drive and host computer._"	4_	EE2011_
EE4509_	Silicon Micro Systems_	"The module provides an introductory view of the microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) in various application areas, and also the knowledge on micromachining technology for making the physical sensors and actuators. Key topics are: MEMS design and process cycles, bulk and surface micromachining technology, structural deposition and etching, inertial, thermal sensors, actuators, micro-motors and micro-pumps, structural consideration and integration issues._"	4_	Stage 3 Engineering students from FoE (for AY2017 intake & after) ; EE2021 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_
EE4510_	Solar Photovoltaic Energy Systems_	"Energy sustainability is important both due to the limited global petroleum reserves and due to the global warming effects of greenhouse gases released by the use of fossil fuels. This module focuses on the types of electrical components and schemes used in solar photovoltaic (PV) energy systems. Besides the characteristics of solar radiation, stand-alone PV schemes with battery energy storage and grid-connected PV schemes will be covered._"	4_	EE2025_
EE4511_	Renewable Generation and Smart Grid_	"This module provides the students with a good overview of renewable energy generation techniques for promoting the advancement and use of economically and environmentally sustainable energy systems. Renewable energy sources including solar, wind, hydro and geothermal are studied in detail. The module will cover the integration of these sources into the smart grid, and strategies for demand side management for efficient resource utilisation. Issues related to environmental impact of renewable energy generation, as well as, their economics will be discussed. Models of smart distribution systems with embedded generation and microgrids will be introduced._"	4_	"EE3505C (for AY2016 intake & prior) ;EE3506C (for AY2017 intake & after)_"
EE4512_	Renewable Energy Systems Capstone Design_	"With growing importance of renewable energy systems there is a need for future engineers who can conceptualize and design such system. This module will use project based learning methods to help future power engineers to conceptualize and design renewable energy system consisting of sources such as Solar, Wind, Fuel cells etc. Along with design practices for distribution networks and power converters, it will introduce them to standards in practice of electrical connection. Each student will go through a process of design, simulate and test their designs._"	4_	EE2025_
EE4601_	Sensors For Biomedical Applications_	"The main objective of this module is to introduce physics, principles, and operating mechanisms of various kinds of sensors. This module will provide electrical engineering students with central core knowledge about sensors in designing and developing for bio-medical applications. The major topics in this module cover; Brief Summary of Sensor Technology, Basic Sensor Structures, Sensing Effects, Physical Sensors and Their Applications in Bio-Medical Engineering, Sensors for Measuring Chemical Quantities in Bio-Medical Engineering, Miscellaneous Bio-Sensors and technologies, Biocompatibility of sensors, and Future trends in Bio-Sensor Technology._"	4_	EE3431C_
EE4602_	Bioelectronics_	"The main objective of this module is to introduce biophysics, electric circuit models and engineering oriented principles of bioelectronics and bioelectricity. This module will provide electrical engineering students with central core knowledge to use semiconductor devices as bio-sensing devices, and to understand the electrical biophysics of human physiology and their biomedical applications. The major topics in this module cover: brief review of MOSFET transistor and SPICE modelling, solid-electrolyte Interface, potentiometric bioelectronics devices: principles of MOSFET-based bioelectronic devices, amperometric bioelectronics devices, microfabrication technologies for bioelectronic devices, introduction to bioelectricity, neurons and neuronal networks, bioelectric measurements._"	4_	EE2004_
EE4603_	Biomedical Imaging Systems_	"The purpose of this course is to present an overview of biomedical imaging systems. The course will examine various imaging modalities including X-ray, ultrasound, nuclear, and MRI. How these images are formed and what types of information they provide will be presented. Image analysis techniques will also be discussed. Specific analysis techniques will include the analysis of cardiac ultrasound, mammography, and MRI functional imagery._"	4_	EE2023/BN2401_
EE4604_	Biological Perception in Digital Media_	"In this module, we introduce the anatomy and physiology of the visual and auditory systems as well as their psychophysical characterizations. In addition, we study computational models that not only serve to provide insights into the functional organization of biological systems, but also to generate predictions for new experiments. These models are used increasingly in digital media coding and compression. They are also the basis for new generations of machines that are more aware of their environment, better adapted to the user and more intuitive to interact with. Major topics include the perception of objects, color, and motion, 3D vision, visual attention, and hearing._"	4_	"EE3731C or EE4704 (for AY2017 intake & after) ;EE3731C or EE3206 (for AY2016 intake & prior)_"
EE4605_	Bio-Instrumentation & Signal Analysis_	"This course introduces the fundamentals of medical instrumentation systems, and bio-signal processing. The physiology of bio-signals, including how they are generated, recorded/collected and are used clinically, will be presented. The purpose of the signal processing methods ranges from noise and artifact reduction to extraction of clinically significant features. The course gives each participant the opportunity to study the performance of a method on real bio-signals. The major topics covered in this module are: Basic concepts of biomedical instrumentation, Cardiovascular system and measurements, Respiratory system and measurements, Neuro-physiological measurements, Signal conditioning and various analysis (linear and nonlinear) techniques._"	4_	EE3731C_
EE4701_	Video Processing_	"Digital video technology has become ubiquitous. It allows professionals and amateurs alike to easily capture, record and display moving pictures. Digital video processing algorithms have found their way into camcorders, DVD players, laptops, mobile phones, and many other devices. In this module, we discuss the theoretical foundations and practical applications of video technology. The major topics covered include video representation, motion estimation, video compression, video communication, digital video hardware, as well as video enhancement and understanding._"	4_	EE3206_
EE4702_	Game World Mechanics_	"This project module gives students hands-on insights into mechanics/simulation components of a game engine. The primary focus is the underlying game logic, like game physics, artificial intelligence and world simulation (and not presentation components like graphics or sound). Brief overview and introduction lectures will be followed by small group projects. Each student will participate in three different projects of four weeks. Students will need to come up with ideas and designs of interesting subsystems, reason about the integration into a game, and implement a prototype. Example projects are explosion physics, herd animal behaviour, and thunderstorm simulation._"	8_	CS1010FC/CS1101C/CS1010E/CG1101 and EE3702_
EE4703_	Digital Media Technologies_	"This module provides a broad view of the state-of-the-art in digital media technologies.  The major topics covered are: business &amp; market environment, film production technologies, TV technology, audio production, mobile media technologies, human-computer interaction and user interface design, virtual reality, mixed reality, and tangible media._"	4_	IT1007 or CS1010 equivalent_
EE4704_	Introduction to Computer Vision and Image Processing_	"The goal of this module is to introduce students to the fundamental concepts underlying digital image processing and techniques for manipulating and analysing image data. This course will provide students with a good foundation in computer vision and image processing, which is important for those intending to proceed to biomedical engineering, intelligent systems and multimedia signal processing. The following topics are taught:  elements of a vision system, image acquisition, 2-D discrete Fourier transform, image enhancement techniques, theoretical basis and techniques for image compression, segmentation methods including edge detection, feature extraction including texture measurement, and object recognition._"	4_	"CG2023, EE2023_"
EE4704E_	Introduction to Computer Vision and Image Processing_	"This module covers the basic concepts and techniques in computer vision and digital image processing. The following topics are taught:  elements of a vision system, image acquisition, 2-D discrete Fourier transform, image enhancement techniques, error-free and lossy compression, segmentation methods, and representation and description methods._"	4_	EE2009E or EE2023E_
CG1111_	Engineering Principles and Practice I_	"This module aims to equip first year engineering students to a computer engineer's way of thinking and will focus on the engineering principles of how computer-aided systems work and fail and the engineering practice of how they are designed, built and valued. Students will be presented a practical computer engineering system, e.g., a sensorassisted autonomous vehicle, a drone, or an engineering event. They are then guided to reconstruct the system via interconnected subsystems through laboratory sessions and group discussions, to explain using engineering principles how the system works and could fail._"	6_	_
CG1112_	Engineering Principles and Practice II_	"This module will be for the students who have completed EPP I and the project scope extends to handle challenges in large-scale systems. Similar to EPP I, students will first learn the fundamental principles on certain advanced concepts and then design and programme a real-world system. The module involves designing a complex computer engineering system that facilitates information processing, real-world interfacing, and understanding the effects of certain useful metrics such as, scaling, safety, security, sustainability, societal impact, fault-tolerant design, etc._"	6_	"CS1010 Programming MethodologyCG1111 Engineering Principles and Practice I_"
CG2023_	Signals and Systems_	"This is a fundamental course in signals and systems, specially developed for computer engineering students. Signals play an important role in carrying information. In particular the idea of frequency domain analysis of signals and systems are important concepts for all computer engineers. The concepts which will be covered include time and frequency domain representations, Fourier transform, spectrum and bandwidth of a signal, frequency response of systems (Bode diagrams), sampling theorem, aliasing, signal reconstruction, and filtering._"	4_	MA1506 or MA1512_
CG2027_	Transistor-level Digital Circuits_	"Building on the basic circuit concepts introduced through CG1111 and CG1112, this module introduces the fundamental concept of carriers, operating principles of PN diodes and MOSFETs. Their IV characteristic in different operating region and their impact on the performance of logic gate will also be discussed. It explains the foundational concepts of inverters and analyses their performance in terms of power and delay trade-off. It also introduces logic synthesis and the fundamental timing analysis of logic gates. Besides the static CMOS logic, it will also cover pass logics or transmission gates logics._"	2_	"CG1111 Engineering Principles and Practice I ORCG1108 Electrical Engineering OREG1112 Engineering Principles and Practice II_"
CG2028_	Computer Organization_	"This module teaches students computer organization concepts and how to write efficient microprocessor programs using assembly language. The course covers computer microarchitecture and memory system fundamentals, and the ARM microprocessor instruction set. The course culminates in an assignment in which students design and implement an efficient assembly language solution to an engineering problem._"	2_	"CS1010 Programming Methodology,EE2026 Digital Design / EE2020 Digital Fundamentals_"
CG2271_	Real-Time Operating Systems_	"Real-time systems must respond quickly to inputs from the environment in order to work effectively and safely, and realtime operating systems (RTOS) are a critical part of such systems. In this course the student is exposed to basic RTOS concepts like tasks, scheduling algorithms, RTOS customisation and concurrent real-time programming. By the end of this course a student will not only understand how an RTOS is built, but will also gain practical hands-on experience in customising RTOSs and in writing real-time programs._"	4_	"CS1020/E Data Structures and Algorithms ICS2040/C Data Structures and Algorithms_"
CG3002_	Embedded Systems Design Project_	"This module introduces students to the development of a large system from conceptualisation to its final implementation. It is structured to contain substantial design and development of hardware and software components. This module is the culminating point of a series of modules integrating the theories which students have already learnt in CG1101, CG1102/CG1103, CG2007, CG2271 and CS2103. With this capstone project, students would be able to better appreciate the relevance of the various components in the Computer Engineering curriculum to large scale computer engineering projects._"	6_	EE2024 and CG2271 and CS2113/T_
CG3207_	Computer Architecture_	"This course teaches students the basics in the design of the various classes of microprocessors. Contents include design of simple micro-controllers, high performance CPU design using parallel techniques, memory organization and parallel processing systems. Topics also include the development of support tools to enable efficient usage of the developed microprocessor. The course emphasizes practical design and includes a group project for students to design and implement a microprocessor with verification on a FPGA._"	4_	EE2024 (for ECE AY2016 intake & prior) / CG2028 or EE2028 (for ECE AY2017 intake & after)_
CG4001_	B. Eng. Dissertation_	"In this module, students will embark on a project that involves a mix of research, design and development components on a topic of current interest in Computer Engineering. Students learn how to apply knowledge and skills acquired in the classroom to develop innovative ways of solving problems. In the process, students acquire skills for independent and lifelong learning. The module is normally carried out over two semesters, but may also be structured as a further 6-month extension of an existing 6-month industrial attachment, where the student works on real life projects jointly supervised by NUS faculties and industry experts._"	12_	Level 4 standing_
CG4002_	Computer Engineering Capstone Project_	"This module introduces students to the development of a large system from conceptualisation to its final implementation. It is structured to contain substantial design and development of hardware and software components.This module is the culminating point of a series of modules integrating the theories which students have already learnt in CS1010, CS2040C, CG2028, CG2271 and CS2113/T. With this capstone project, students would be able to better appreciate the relevance of the various components in the Computer Engineering curriculum to large scale computer engineering projects._"	8_	"CG2028 Computer OrganizationCG2271 Real-Time Operating SystemsCS2113/T Software Engineering & Object-Oriented Programming_"
CS1010_	Programming Methodology_	"This module introduces the fundamental concepts of problem solving by computing and programming using an imperative programming language. It is the first and foremost introductory course to computing.  Topics covered include computational thinking and computational problem solving, designing and specifying an algorithm, basic problem formulation and problem solving approaches, program development, coding, testing and debugging, fundamental programming constructs (variables, types, expressions, assignments, functions, control structures, etc.), fundamental data structures (arrays, strings, composite data types), basic sorting, and recursion._"	4_	_
CS1010E_	Programming Methodology_	"This module introduces the fundamental concepts of problem solving by computing and programming using an imperative programming language. It is the first and foremost introductory course to computing.  Topics covered include computational thinking and computational problem solving, designing and specifying an algorithm, basic problem formulation and problem solving approaches, program development, coding, testing and debugging, fundamental programming constructs (variables, types, expressions, assignments, functions, control structures, etc.), fundamental data structures (arrays, strings, composite data types), basic sorting, and recursion._"	4_	_
PC1222_	Fundamentals of Physics II_	"The module aims to bridge the gap between O level Physics and first year university physics level. The module covers the fundamentals of three branches of physics: electricity &amp; magnetism, optics and modern physics. Topics included in the part on electricity &amp; magnetism are Coulombs law, electric field and potential, capacitance, current and resistance, DC circuits, magnetic fields, magnetic effects on current, electromagnetic induction, AC circuits and electromagnetic waves. The part on optics encompasses topics such as reflection and refraction, systems of lenses, optical instruments, interference, diffraction, grating and polarization. Topics covered in the part on modern physics are blackbody radiation, photoelectric effect, atomic transitions and spectra, the uncertainty principle, wave-particle duality, radioactivity and decay processes, binding energy and fusion energy and fusion &amp; fission._"	4_	'O' level pass in Physics or Combined Science (Physics & Chemistry OR Physics & Biology)._
ES1103_	English for Academic Purposes_	ES1103 serves as a bridging course for students who have taken the university’s Qualifying English Test and are deemed to require additional language support for the academic context. It aims to equip students with the knowledge of the academic genre and the ability to apply such knowledge in academic communication. The module adopts a reading-into-writing approach using themed readings as springboard texts for students’ writing and provides opportunities for analysing and internalising ways of organising academic texts. Students will acquire essential academic skills required to cope with the rigour of academic writing at a tertiary level._	4_	"1. Placement through the Qualifying English Test or a pass in ES1000. 

2. Only students who matriculated in AY2016/17 and onwards can take ES1103_"
MA1508_	Linear Algebra with Applications_	"The objective of this module is to inculcate a facility in both linear algebra and its numerical methods. The module is targeted at students in the Engineering Science Programme. Topics: systems of linear equations, matrices, determinants, numerical solutions of systems of linear equations, vector spaces, subspaces, linear independence, basis and dimension, rank of a matrix, orthogonality and orthonormal bases, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization, numerical methods in approximating eigenvalues._"	4_	GCE ‘A’ Level or H2 Mathematics or equivalent_
MA1511_	Engineering Calculus_	This is a seven-week module specially designed for students majoring in Engineering. It introduces the basic concepts in one variable and several variable calculus with applications in engineering. Main topics: One variable calculus. Power series. Partial differentiation. Multiple integrals. Vector Calculus._	2_	GCE ‘A’ level or H2 Mathematics or H2 Further Mathematics or equivalent_
MA1512_	Differential Equations for Engineering_	This is a seven-week module specially designed for students majoring in Engineering. It introduces the basic concepts in differential equations with applications in engineering. Major topics: First order ordinary differential equations and applications. Second order ordinary differential equations and applications. Partial differential equations and applications. Laplace transforms and applications._	2_	GCE ‘A’ level or H2 Mathematics or H2 Further Mathematics or equivalent_
GEQ1000_	Asking Questions_	"There are many ways to ask questions, and many kinds of questions that different disciplines investigate. For a start, this module introduces six dominant modes of questioning from the perspective of computational thinking, design thinking, engineering, philosophy, science, and social sciences. These six perspectives serve as a starting point to introduce all undergraduate students to different modes of questioning across these disciplines, and provide an initial exposure to how scholars from these disciplines pursue specific lines of questioning of everyday issues. We emphasize that while there is only limited time and space within one module to devote to specific disciplinary lines of investigations, we encourage all students to actively think about other lines of questioning, other questions that need to be asked, particularly in disciplines not represented in this introductory platform as we move through this journey together. We expect that in future subsequent offerings, other disciplinary modes of investigations may also be introduced._"	4_	_
GER1000_	Quantitative Reasoning_	"This module aims to equip undergraduates with basic reasoning skills on using data to address real world issues. What are some potential complications to keep in mind as we plan what data to collect and how to use them to address our particular issue? When two things are related (e.g. smoking and cancer), how can we tell whether the relationship is causal (e.g. smoking causes cancer)? How can quantitative reasoning help us deal with uncertainty or elucidate complex relationships? These and other questions will be discussed using real world examples._"	4_	_
CS1231_	Discrete Structures_	"This module introduces mathematical tools required in the study of computer science. Topics include: (1) Logic and proof techniques: propositions, conditionals, quantifications.  (2) Relations and Functions: Equivalence relations and partitions.  Partially ordered sets.  Well-Ordering Principle. Function equality.  Boolean/identity/inverse functions.  Bijection. (3) Mathematical formulation of data models (linear model, trees, graphs). (4) Counting and Combinatoric: Pigeonhole Principle. Inclusion-Exclusion Principle.  Number of relations on a set, number of injections from one finite set to another, Diagonalisation proof: An infinite countable set has an uncountable power set; Algorithmic proof: An infinite set has a countably infinite subset.  Subsets of countable sets are countable._"	4_	A-level Mathematics or H2 Mathematics or MA1301 or MA1301FC or MA1301X_
CS2040C_	Data Structures and Algorithms_	"This module introduces students to the design and implementation of fundamental data structures and algorithms. The module covers basic data structures (linked lists, stacks, queues, hash tables, binary heaps, trees, and graphs), searching and sorting algorithms, basic analysis of algorithms, and basic object-oriented programming concepts._"	4_	CS1010 or its equivalent_
CS2113_	Software Engineering & Object-Oriented Programming_	"This module introduces the necessary skills for systematic and rigorous development of software systems. It covers requirements, design, implementation, quality assurance, and project management aspects of small-to-medium size multi-person software projects. The module uses the Object Oriented Programming paradigm. Students of this module will receive hands-on practice of tools commonly used in the industry, such as test automation tools, build automation tools, and code revisioning tools will be covered._"	4_	CS2040C or (CS2030 and CS2040)_
ST2334_	Probability and Statistics_	"Basic concepts of probability, conditional probability, independence, random variables, joint and marginal distributions, mean and variance, some common probability distributions, sampling distributions, estimation and hypothesis testing based on a normal population.  This module is targeted at students who are interested in Statistics and are able to meet the pre-requisites. Preclude ME students taking or have taken ME4273._"	4_	MA1102R or MA1312 or MA1505 or MA1507 or MA1521_
EG2401A_	Engineering Professionalism_	"This module aims to alert and sensitise students on the kinds of situations that may arise in his professional career and teaches students to improve his/her skills in appreciating and dealing with the moral challenges posed by such situations. Students will acquire skills in dealing with ethical issues, learn about the 'codes of ethics' set by professional bodies and intellectual property rights and protection._"	2_	"ES1501A, ES1501B, ES1501C, EG1413/ES1531 and
Year 2 status_"
MA1301_	Introductory Mathematics_	"This module serves as a bridging module for students without 'A' - level mathematics. Its aim is to equip students with appropriate mathematical knowledge and skill so as to prepare them for further study of mathematics-related disciplines. At the end of the course, students are expected to attain a level of proficiency in algebra and calculus equivalent to the GCE Advanced Level. Major topics: Sets, functions and graphs, polynomials and rational functions, inequalities in one variable, logarithmic and exponential functions, trigonometric functions, sequences and series, techniques of differentiation, applications of differentiation, maxima and minima, increasing and decreasing functions, curve sketching, techniques of integration, applications of integration, areas, volumes of solids of revolution, solution of first order ordinary differential equations by separation of variables and by integrating factor, complex numbers, vectors._"	4_	Pass in GCE ‘O’ Level Additional Mathematics or GCE ‘AO’ Levels or H1 Mathematics_

CS2101_	Effective Communication for Computing Professionals_	"This module aims to equip students with the skills needed to communicate technical information to technical and nontechnical audiences, and to create comprehensible software documentation. A student-centric approach will be adopted to encourage independent and collaborative learning while engaging students in team-based projects. Students will learn interpersonal and intercultural communication skills as well as hone their oral and written communication skills. Assessment modes include a variety of oral and written communication tasks such as reports, software guides, oral presentations, software demonstrations and project blogs._"	4_	Students have to complete ES1000 and/or ES1103 (if required to take the module/s) before reading this module._
CP3880_	Advanced Technology Attachment Programme_	_	12_	"(IS2101 Business and Technical Communication or CS2101 Effective Communication for Computing Professionals or their equivalents)
and (CS2103/CS2103T Software Engineering or IS2103 Enterprise Systems Development Concepts or IS2150 E-Business Design and Implementation or BT2101 IT and Decision Making)_"
EG3611A_	Industrial Attachment_	This internship module is for B.Eng. degree with a compulsory 20-week internship. The type of internship varies according to the programmes. Internships integrate knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skill development in a professional setting. It enables students to learn about the latest developments in the industries and to interact with engineers and other professionals as they join projects or tasks that help to develop or enhance their skills whilst contributing to the organization. Students can extend their internship module by another 4 weeks and earn additional 2 MC by registering EG3611b Industrial Attachment._	10_	"Students should be of or are expected to be at least Year 3 in standing. Student should complete CFG career coaching modules (to be finalized) prior to start of internship_"
CS3230_	Design and Analysis of Algorithms_	"This module introduces different techniques of designing and analysing algorithms. Students will learn about the framework for algorithm analysis, for example, lower bound arguments, average case analysis, and the theory of NP-completeness. In addition, students are exposed to various algorithm design paradigms. The module serves two purposes: to improve the students' ability to design algorithms in different areas, and to prepare students for the study of more advanced algorithms. The module covers lower and upper bounds, recurrences, basic algorithm paradigms (such as prune-and-search, dynamic programming, branch-and-bound, graph traversal, and randomised approaches), amortized analysis, NP-completeness, and some selected advanced topics._"	4_	(CS2010 or CS2020 or CS2040 or CS2040C) and (CS1231 or MA1100)_
CP4106_	Computing Project_	"The objective of this project module enables students to undertake a substantial computing-related project work over a period of one year. Students work individually on self-proposed projects or projects proposed by staff. They will have good opportunity to apply what they have learnt on practical problems, be it research-oriented or software development-oriented. Students should periodically submit a report make a presentation to the respective supervisors. The project will be letter-graded._"	8_	Completed at least 112 MCs for the respective degree._
CS2113T_	Software Engineering & Object-Oriented Programming_	"This module introduces the necessary skills for systematic and rigorous development of software systems. It covers requirements, design, implementation, quality assurance, and project management aspects of small-to-medium size multi-person software projects. The module uses the Object Oriented Programming paradigm. Students of this module will receive hands-on practice of tools commonly used in the industry, such as test automation tools, build automation tools, and code revisioning tools will be covered._"	4_	CS2040C or (CS2030 and CS2040)_
